---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: '1.823'
---

# 1.823

_Source page: 373_



In both of these cases, supposing that the next sample is equal to the mean of all previous


samples, then the estimate using a learning rate of


0.5


is more accurate.


Exercise 17.3.


Consider applying


-learning with function approximation to a problem


with a continuous action space by discretizing the action space. Suppose that the con-


tinuous action space is in


, such as a robot with


actuators, and each dimension is


discretized into


intervals. How many actions are in the resulting discrete action space? Is


-learning with function approximation well suited for continuous problems with many


dimensions?


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


352


chapter 17. model-free methods


Solution:


An action space with


dimensions and


intervals per dimension results in


discrete actions. The number of discrete actions increases exponentially in


. Even if


is


small, larger values of


can quickly result in very high action counts. Hence,


-learning


with function approximation is not well suited for use on continuous problems with many


action dimensions.


Exercise 17.4.


What is the complexity of


-learning if we interact with the environment


for


time steps? What is the complexity of Sarsa if we interact with the environment for


time steps?


Solution:


For


-learning, our update rule is


) +


max


At each time step, we must perform a maximization over actions, so for


time steps, the


complexity of


-learning is


|A|


. For Sarsa, our update rule is


) +