---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: 1, 2
---

# 1, 2

_Source page: 536_



movie


There is a stochastic Nash equilibrium. Agent


follows


dinner


) =


2/3


and


movie


) =


1/3


. Agent


follows


dinner


) =


1/3


and


movie


) =


2/3


. The utilities are:


) =


) =


However, if the two agents correlated their actions on a fair coin flip


movie


movie


) =


dinner


dinner


) =


0.5


, then they could coordinate either both going to dinner or both


going to the movie. The utilities are:


) =


0.5


0.0


0.0


0.5


0.5


0.5


) =


0.5


0.0


0.0


0.5


0.5


0.5


This is not possible with a Nash equilibrium. Intuitively, in this example, this is because the


probabilistic weight is spread out over each row independently for each player. Conversely,


a correlated equilibrium can be targeted toward a specific cell (in this case, with a higher


payoff).


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


24.11. exercises


515


Exercise 24.6.


Algorithms such as iterated best response and fictitious play do not converge


in every game. Construct a game that demonstrates this nonconvergence.


Solution:


Iterated best response diverges in rock-paper-scissors. Here is an example of the


first


10


iterations with random initialization:


Iteration


Agent


’s Action


Agent


’s Action


Rewards


paper


rock


1.0


1.0


paper


scissors


1.0


1.0


rock


scissors


1.0


1.0


rock


paper


1.0


1.0


scissors


paper


1.0


1.0


scissors


rock


1.0


1.0


paper


rock


1.0


1.0


21


This game and many others


paper


scissors


1.0


1.0


are discussed in greater detail


rock


scissors


1.0


1.0


by Y. Shoham and K. Leyton-


10


rock


paper


1.0


1.0


Brown,


Multiagent Systems: Algo-


rithmic, Game Theoretic, and Logical


Foundations


. Cambridge University


21


Fictitious play also will not converge in


almost-rock-paper-scissors


Press, 2009.


agent


rock


paper


scissors