---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (7.18)
---

# (7.18)

_Source page: 167_



The computational savings lies in not having to construct a second value function


in memory with each iteration. Gauss-Seidel value iteration can converge more


14


14


A poor ordering in Gauss-Seidel


quickly than standard value iteration, depending on the ordering chosen.


In


value iteration cannot cause the al-


some problems, the state contains a time index that increments deterministically


gorithm to be slower than standard


forward in time. If we apply Gauss-Seidel value iteration starting at the last time


value iteration.


index and work our way backward, this process is sometimes called


backward


induction value iteration


. An example of the impact of the state ordering is given in


example 7.3.


Algorithm 7.9.


Asynchronous


struct


GaussSeidelValueIteration


value iteration, which updates


k_max


# maximum number of iterations


states in a different manner than


end


value iteration, often saving com-


putation time. The method termi-


function


solve


::


GaussSeidelValueIteration


::


MDP


nates after


k_max


iterations.


0.0 for


in


for


k_max


for


in


enumerate


backup


end


end


return


ValueFunctionPolicy


end


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


146


chapter 7. exact solution methods


Example 7.3. The effect of the state


Consider the linear variation of the hex world problem from example 7.2. We


ordering on convergence of asyn-


can solve the same problem using asynchronous value iteration. The ordering


chronous value iteration. In this


case, evaluating right to left allows


of the states directly affects the rate at which reward from the consuming


convergence to occur in far fewer


tile propagates down the line to the other tiles, and thus how quickly the


iterations.


method converges.


left to right


right to left


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


7.7. linear program formulation


147