---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: + (
---

# + (

_Source page: 216_



44


88


/2


66


. A new successor


node is created:


left


down


right


up


72


44


36


66


2 4


2 4


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


9.6. monte carlo tree search


195


Figure 9.4.


A Monte Carlo tree


search tree on 2048 after


100


sim-


ulations. In general, Monte Carlo


tree search for MDPs produces a


search graph because there can be


multiple ways to reach the same


state. The colors in the tree indicate


the estimated values at the nodes,


with high values in blue and low


values in red. The tree is shallow,


with a fairly high branching factor,


because 2048 has many reachable


states for each action.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


196


chapter 9. online planning


Example 9.8.


The performance


Rollouts are not the only means by which we can estimate utilities in Monte


of Monte Carlo tree search varies


Carlo tree search. Custom evaluation functions can often be crafted for spe-


with the number of simulations


and


as


the


board


evaluation


cific problems to help guide the algorithm. For example, we can encourage


method


is


changed.


Heuristic


Monte Carlo tree search to order its tiles in 2048 using evaluation functions


board evaluations tend to be


that return the weighted sum across tile values:


efficient and can more effectively


guide


the


search


when


run


counts are low. Lookahead rollout


evaluations take about


18


times


longer than heuristic evaluations.