---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: '0.00'
---

# 0.00

_Source page: 308_



0.2


0.6


0.8


0.2


0.6


0.8


0.4


0.4


samples


samples


10


10


What we can see is that the optimal policy is much safer than the simple


policy, while producing advisories at approximately the same frequency. The


advisory metric estimate converges much more quickly than the collision


estimates. The reason for the faster convergence for the advisory metric is


that advisories are more common than collisions. Collisions involving the


optimal policy are so rare that even


10


samples appear inadequate for an


accurate estimate. The curve is very jagged, with large spikes at samples


involving collisions, followed by a decay in the collision probability estimate


as collision-free samples are simulated.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


14.2. rare event simulation


287


accurately estimating failure probabilities through direct sampling and simulation


can be computationally challenging.


A common approach to improve efficiency is called


importance sampling


, which


involves sampling from an alternative distribution and weighting the results


A more elaborate introduction


appropriately to arrive at an unbiased estimate.


We used this same kind of ap-


to importance sampling and other


proach in the context of inference in Bayesian networks by the name of likelihood


techniques for rare event simula-


weighted sampling (section 3.7). The alternative sampling distribution is often


tion is provided by J. A. Bucklew,


Introduction to Rare Event Simula-


called a


proposal distribution


, and we will use


to represent the probability


tion


. Springer, 2004.


our proposal distribution assigns to trajectory


We will derive the appropriate way to weight samples from


. If we have