---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: GLPK
---

# GLPK

_Source page: 437_



Optimizer


JuMP.jl


and


GLPK.jl


provide a


@variable


model


@variable


model


mathematical optimization frame-


@constraint


model


sum


==


1.0


work and a solver for linear pro-


for


in


grams, respectively.


@constraint


model


, (


end


@objective


model


Max


optimize!


model


return


value


value.


nothing


end


Algorithm 20.7 shows a procedure that uses algorithm 20.6 to find the domi-


nating alpha vectors in a set


. Initially, all the alpha vectors are candidates for


being dominating. We then choose one of these candidates and determine the


belief


where the candidate leads to the greatest improvement in value compared


to all other alpha vectors in the dominating set. If the candidate does not bring


improvement, we remove it from the set. If it does bring improvement, we move


an alpha vector from the candidate set that brings the greatest improvement


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


416


chapter 20. exact belief state planning


at


to the dominating set. The process continues until there are no longer any


candidates. We can prune away any alpha vectors and associated conditional


plans that are not dominating at any belief point. Example 20.3 demonstrates


pruning on the crying baby problem.


Algorithm 20.7.


A method for


function


find_dominating


pruning dominated alpha vec-


length


tors and associated plans. The


candidates


dominating


trues


),


falses


find_dominating


function identi-


while


any


candidates


fies all the dominating alpha vec-


findfirst


candidates


tors in set


. It uses binary vec-


find_maximal_belief


],


dominating


])


tors


candidates


and


dominating


if


===


nothing


candidates


false


to track which alpha vectors are


else


candidates for inclusion in the


argmax


([


candidates


b⋅Γ


: -


Inf for


in 1


])


dominating set and which are cur-


candidates


],


dominating


false


true


rently in the dominating set, re-


end


spectively.


end


return


dominating


end


function


prune


plans


find_dominating


return


plans


],


])


end