---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: '2048'
---

# 2048

_Source page: 632_



This game was developed by


The


2048 problem


is based on a popular tile game played on a


board.


It has


Gabriele Cirulli in 2014.


discrete state and action spaces. The board is initially empty except for two tiles,


each of which can have value


or


. A randomly selected starting state is shown


in figure F.3.


The agent can move all tiles


left


down


right


, or


up


. Choosing a direction


pushes all the tiles in that direction. A tile stops when it hits a wall or another tile


Figure F.3. A random starting state


in the 2048 problem consists of two


of a different value. A tile that hits another tile of the same value merges with that


tiles, each with value


or


tile, forming a new tile with their combined value. After shifting and merging, a


new tile of value


or


is spawned in a random open space. This process is shown


in figure F.4.


The game ends when we can no longer shift tiles to produce an empty space.


Rewards are obtained only when merging two tiles, and they are equal to the


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


f.3. cart-pole


611


Figure F.4. An action in 2048 shifts


spawn tile


all tiles in the chosen direction and


shift tiles


then spawns a new tile in an empty


space.


merged tile’s value. An example state-action transition with a merge is shown in


figure F.5.


Figure F.5. Here, the


down


action is


reward


used to shift all tiles, resulting in


the merging of two


tiles to pro-


shift & merge


spawn tile


duce an


tile and receive a reward


2 4


of


2 8


2 8


A common strategy is to choose a corner and alternate between the two actions


that lead in that direction. This tends to stratify the tiles such that the larger-valued


ones are in the corner and the newly spawned tiles are in the periphery.