---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: )) +
---

# )) +

_Source page: 180_



))


) +


) +


))


) +


Hence,


for


, implying that


is a contraction


mapping. As discussed in appendix A.15,


lim


converges to a unique fixed point


, for which


Exercise 7.13.


Prove that value iteration converges to a unique solution.


Solution:


The value iteration update (equation (7.16)) is


) =


max


) +


We will denote the Bellman operator as


and rewrite an application of the Bellman backup


as


BU


. As with the previous problem, if


is a contraction mapping, then repeated


application of


to


will converge to a unique fixed point.


We can show that


is a contraction mapping:


BU


) =


max


) +


max


) +


) +


) +


max


) +


for


max


, with


. Hence,


BU


max


which implies that


is a contraction mapping.


Exercise 7.14.


Show that the point to which value iteration converges corresponds to the


optimal value function.


Solution:


Let


be the value function produced by value iteration. We want to show that


. At convergence, we have


BU


. Let


be a value function that maps all states


to


. For any policy


, it follows from the definition of


BU


. Similarly,


that


. Because


and


as


, it follows that


which can be the case only if


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


7.10. exercises


159


Exercise 7.15.


Suppose that we have a linear Gaussian problem with disturbance


and quadratic reward. Show that the scalar term in the utility function has the


form:


Tr


You may want to use the


trace trick


Ax


Tr


Ax


Tr


Axx


Solution:


This equation is true if


Tr


. Our derivation is


i


Tr


∼N


∼N


i


Tr


ww


∼N


i


Tr


ww


∼N


i


Tr


ww


∼N


Tr


Tr


Exercise 7.16.


What is the role of the scalar term


in the LQR optimal value function, as


given in equation (7.31)?


Solution:


A matrix


is positive definite if, for all nonzero


Mx


. In equation (7.31),


every


Vw


for all


. Thus, these


terms are guar-


is negative semidefinite, so


anteed to be nonpositive. This should be expected, as it is impossible to obtain positive


reward in LQR problems, and we seek instead to minimize cost.


The


scalars are offsets in the quadratic optimal value function:


) =


Vs


Each


represents the baseline reward around which the


Vs


term fluctuates. We


know that


is negative definite, so


Vs


, and


thus represents the expected reward


that one could obtain if one were at the origin,


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com