---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: ) =
---

# ) =

_Source page: 306_



if


is a collision, and


otherwise.


state


This plot shows where in the state space there is significant collision risk,


indicated by ‘‘hotter’’ colors, when following the policy. We can see that the


optimal policy is quite safe, especially if


20 s


. When


col


col


is low, even


the optimal policy cannot avoid collision due to the physical acceleration


constraints of the vehicle. The simple policy has a much higher level of risk


compared to the optimal policy, especially when


20 s


5 m/s


, and


col


the intruder is below us—in part because the choice to produce an advisory


in the simple strategy does not take


into account.


0.0 m/s


5.0 m/s


200


0.8


100


0.6


0.4


Optimal


100


0.2


200


200


100


Simple


100


200


20


30


20


30


10


40


10


40


col


col


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


14.2. rare event simulation


285


If the state space is discrete, then equation (14.4) can be computed analytically.


However, if the state space is large or continuous, we may want to estimate


through sampling. We can pull a sample from the initial state distribution and


then roll out the policy and compute the trajectory metric. We can then estimate


the value of the overall metric from the mean of the trajectory metrics. The quality


of the estimate generally improves with more samples. Example 14.3 illustrates


this process for estimating various metrics associated with collision avoidance


policies.


We often use the


standard error


to measure the quality of our estimate:


SE