---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: )))
---

# )))

_Source page: 316_



otherwise


We can find these most likely failures using a variety of approximation methods.


Depending on the approximation method, it may be important to relax the infinite


penalty for not reaching a failure at termination so that the search can be guided


to failures. If applying Monte Carlo tree search to collision avoidance, the penalty


11


11


This strategy was used by R.


could be related to the miss distance.


Lee, M. J. Kochenderfer, O. J. Meng-


We can play back the most likely failure trajectory and gauge whether that


shoel, G. P. Brat, and M. P. Owen,


trajectory merits concern. If the trajectory is deemed extremely implausible, then


“Adaptive Stress Testing of Air-


borne Collision Avoidance Sys-


we can feel more confident that our policy is safe. If the failure trajectory does


tems,” in


Digital Avionics Systems


merit concern, however, then we might have a few options:


Conference (DASC)


, 2015.


1.


Change the action space.


We may add more extreme maneuvers to our action set


for our collision avoidance problem.


2.


Change the reward function.


We may decrease the cost for changing advisories


with the aim of lowering collision risk, as illustrated in the trade-off curve in


example 14.5.


3.


Change the transition function.


We may increase the acceleration limit so that the


aircraft can achieve the target vertical rates more quickly when directed by our


policy.


4.


Improve the solver.


We may have used a discretization of the state space that is


too coarse to capture important features of the optimal policy. In exchange for


additional computation time, we may be able to refine the discretization to


obtain a better policy. Alternatively, we may adopt a different approximation


technique.


5.


Do not deploy the system.


If the policy is unsafe, it may be better not to deploy it


in the real world.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


14.6. summary


295