---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: 2, 1, 5
---

# 2, 1, 5

_Source page: 349_



. The transition function


maintain such a distribution over


each state-action pair.


from


taking action


is a three-valued categorical distribution because


there are three possible successor states. Each successor state has an unknown


transition probability. The space of possible transition probabilities is the set


of three-element vectors that sum to


. The Dirichlet distribution represents


a probability distribution over these possible transition probabilities. Here is


a plot of the density function:


0.2


15


0.8


0.4


0.6


10


0.6


0.4


0.8


0.2


0.2


0.6


0.8


0.4


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


328


chapter 16. model-based methods


Algorithm 16.8.


A Bayesian up-


mutable struct


BayesianMDP


date method when the posterior


# state space (assumes 1:nstates)


distribution over transition mod-


# action space (assumes 1:nactions)


els is represented as a product of


# Dirichlet distributions D[s,a]


Dirichlet distributions. We assume


# reward function as matrix (not estimated)


in this implementation that the re-


# discount


# value function


ward model


is known, though


planner


we can use Bayesian methods to


end


estimate expected reward from ex-


perience. The matrix


associates


function


lookahead


model


::


BayesianMDP


Dirichlet distributions with every


model


model


model


state-action pair to model uncer-


sum


model


].


alpha


tainty in the transition to their suc-


if


==


cessor states.


return 0.0


end


model


s′


model


].


alpha


s′


return


sum


s′


s′


for


s′


in


end


function


update!


model


::


BayesianMDP


s′


model


].


alpha


s′


+=


model


Dirichlet


update!


model


planner


model


s′


return


model


end


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


16.5. bayes-adaptive markov decision processes


329