---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: '18.25'
---

# 18.25

_Source page: 426_



Exercise 19.17.


Both the Kalman filter and the extended Kalman filter compute the cross-


covariance matrix


. The unscented Kalman filter


po


using the observation covariance


does not directly compute this observation matrix, but instead computes


po


directly. Show


that the covariance update for the unscented Kalman filter,


, matches


the covariance update for the Kalman filter and extended Kalman filter,


KO


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


19.9. exercises


405


Solution:


We can use the relations


and


to show that the two


po


po


updates are equivalent. Note also that a symmetric matrix is its own transpose, and that


covariance matrices are symmetric.


po


po


po


KO


KO


= (


KO


Exercise 19.18.


What are some advantages and disadvantages of using a particle filter


instead of a Kalman filter?


Solution:


A Kalman filter can provide an exact belief update when the system is linear


Gaussian. Particle filters can work better when the system is nonlinear and the uncertainty


is multimodal. Particle filters are generally more computationally expensive and may suffer


from particle deprivation.


Exercise 19.19.


Consider using a particle filter to maintain a belief in a problem where


observations are very reliable, with observations having either high or low likelihood.


For example, in the Spelunker Joe problem, we can reliably determine which of the four


walls are present, allowing us to immediately discount any states that do not match the


observation. Why might a particle filter with rejection be a better match than a traditional


particle filter for such problems?


Solution:


A traditional particle filter produces a set of particles and assigns weights to them


according to their observation likelihoods. In problems like the one with Spelunker Joe,


many particles may end up with little to no weight. Having many particles with low weight


makes the belief vulnerable to particle deprivation. A particle filter with rejection ensures


that each particle’s successor state is compatible with the observation, thus mitigating the


issue of particle deprivation.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com