---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: 10,460,353,203
---

# 10,460,353,203

_Source page: 446_



plans.


Exercise 20.5.


Suppose that we have a patient and we are unsure whether they have a


particular disease. We do have three diagnostic tests, each with different probabilities that


they will correctly indicate whether the disease is present. While the patient is in our office,


we have the option to administer multiple diagnostic tests in sequence. We observe the


outcome of each diagnostic test immediately. In addition, we can repeat any diagnostic


test multiple times, with the outcomes of all tests being conditionally independent of each


other, given the presence or absence of the disease. When we are done with the tests, we


decide whether to treat the disease or send the patient home without treatment. Explain


how you would define the various components of a POMDP formulation.


Solution:


We have three states:


1.


: the patient does not have the disease


no-disease


2.


: the patient has the disease


disease


3.


: the interaction is over (terminal state)


terminal


We have five actions:


1.


: administer test


2.


: administer test


3.


: administer test


4.


: administer treatment and send patient home


treat


5.


: send patient home without treatment


stop


We have three observations:


1.


: the outcome of the test (if administered) indicates the patient does not have the disease


no-disease


2.


: the outcome of the test (if administered) indicates the patient has the disease


disease


3.


: a test was not administered


terminal


The transition model would be deterministic, with


if


∈{


} ∧


treat


stop


terminal


) =


if


otherwise


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


20.8. exercises


425


The reward function would be a function of the cost of administering treatment and each


test, as well as the cost of not treating the disease if it is indeed present. The reward available


from


. The observation model assigns probabilities to correct and incorrect


terminal


is


observations of the disease state as a result of a diagnostic test from one of the nonterminal


states. The initial belief would assign our prior probability to whether the patient has the


disease, with zero probability assigned to the terminal state.


Exercise 20.6.


Why might we want to perform the same test multiple times in the previous


exercise?


Solution:


Depending on the probability of incorrect results, we may want to perform the


same test multiple times to improve our confidence in whether the patient has the disease.


The results of the tests are independent given the disease state.


Exercise 20.7.


Suppose we have three alpha vectors,