---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (21.16)
---

# (21.16)

_Source page: 459_



Algorithm 21.9 provides an implementation. We can also derive a policy using


greedy one-step lookahead.


We can iteratively apply greedy one-step lookahead at a set of beliefs


to


tighten our estimates of the upper bound. The beliefs in


can be a superset of the


beliefs in


. Algorithm 21.10 provides an implementation of this. Example 21.1


shows the effect of multiple iterations of the sawtooth approximation on the


crying baby problem.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


438


chapter 21. offline belief state planning


Algorithm 21.9. The sawtooth up-


struct


SawtoothPolicy


per bound representation for value


# POMDP problem


functions and policies. It is defined


# dictionary mapping beliefs to utilities


using a dictionary


that maps be-


end


lief vectors to upper bounds on


their utility obtained, such as, from


function


basis


length


the fast informed bound. A require-


==


1.0


0.0 for


in 1


ment of this representation is that


return


for


in 1


contain belief-utility pairs at the


end


standard basis beliefs, which can


be obtained from the


basis


func-


function


utility


::


SawtoothPolicy


tion. We can use one-step looka-


head to obtain greedy action-utility


if


haskey


pairs from arbitrary beliefs


return


end


basis


uE


for


in


b′


minimum


b′


for


in


eachindex


if


b′


b′


u′


uE⋅b


b′


u′


uE⋅b′


return


minimum


b′


u′


for


b′


u′


in


end


::


SawtoothPolicy


)(


greedy


).


Algorithm 21.10.


Sawtooth iter-


struct


SawtoothIteration


ation iteratively applies one-step


# initial mapping from beliefs to utilities


lookahead at points in


to improve


# beliefs to compute values including those in V map


the utility estimates at the points in


k_max


# maximum number of iterations


. The beliefs in


are a superset of


end


those contained in


. To preserve


function


solve


::


SawtoothIteration


::