---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: HSVI
---

# HSVI

_Source page: 464_



) algorithm introduced the


fully observable context. This section discusses


sawtooth heuristic search


(algo-


concept of using the sawtooth-


rithm 21.14) as an offline method that produces a set of alpha vectors that can be


based


action


heuristic


and


gap-based observation heuristic.


used to represent an offline policy. However, like the online POMDP methods


T.


Smith


and


R. G.


Simmons,


discussed in the next chapter, the computational effort is focused on beliefs that


“Heuristic Search Value Iteration


for POMDPs,” in


Conference on


are reachable from some specified initial belief. The heuristic that drives the ex-


Uncertainty


in


Artificial


Intelli-


ploration of the reachable belief space is the gap between the upper and lower


gence (UAI)


, 2004. The SARSOP


11


bounds of the value function.


algorithm built on this work. H.


Kurniawati, D. Hsu, and W. S. Lee,


The algorithm is initialized with an upper bound on the value function rep-


“SARSOP: Efficient Point-Based


resented by a set of sawtooth belief-utility pairs


, together with a lower bound


POMDP Planning by Approximat-


ing Optimally Reachable Belief


on the value function represented by a set of alpha vectors


. The belief-utility


Spaces,” in


Robotics: Science and


pairs defining the sawtooth upper bound can be obtained from the fast informed


Systems


, 2008.


bound. The lower bound can be obtained from the best-action worst-state bound,


as shown in algorithm 21.14, or some other method, such as point-based value


iteration.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


21.8. sawtooth heuristic search


443


Algorithm 21.14.


The sawtooth


struct


SawtoothHeuristicSearch


heuristic search policy. The solver


# initial belief


starts from belief


and explores to


# gap threshold


a depth


for no more than


k_max


# depth


iterations. It uses an upper bound


k_max


# maximum number of iterations


obtained through the fast informed


k_fib


# number of iterations for fast informed bound


end


bound computed with


k_fib


it-


erations. The lower bound is ob-


function


explore!


::


SawtoothHeuristicSearch


πhi


πlo


tained from the best-action worst-


state bound. The gap threshold is


b′


utility


πhi


b′


utility


πlo


b′


if


||


return


end


πhi


argmax


->


update


)),


b′


update


explore!


πhi


πlo


b′


if


b′


basis


πhi


b′


greedy


πhi


b′


).


end


push!


πlo


backup


πlo


b′


))


end


function


solve


::


SawtoothHeuristicSearch


::