---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: '0.598'
---

# 0.598

_Source page: 490_



. Thus, from our final iteration, we proceed to


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


22.9. exercises


469


Exercise 22.4.


Summarize the techniques covered in this chapter to reduce branching over


actions.


Solution:


Branch and bound can reduce action branching by using an upper bound on the


value function. It skips actions that cannot improve on the value obtained from actions that


it explored earlier. Gap heuristic search and Monte Carlo tree search use approximations


of action values to guide the selection of actions during exploration.


Exercise 22.5.


Summarize the techniques covered in this chapter to reduce branching over


observations.


Solution:


Sparse sampling reduces observation branching by sampling only a small number


of observations. Observations are sampled from


, which means that observations


that have greater probability are more likely to be sampled. Determinized sparse tree


search uses a similar approach, but the sampling occurs once and is then fixed. Branching


over observations can also be reduced based on the lookahead value


. Gap heuristic


search evaluates the gap and avoids branching on observations for which we have high


confidence in the value function.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com