---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (A.34)
---

# (A.34)

_Source page: 592_



Named for the Polish mathemati-


cian Stefan Banach (1892–1945)


where


is the distance metric associated with the metric space and


. A


who first stated the theorem.


contraction mapping thus reduces the distance between any two members of a


A complete metric space is one


set. Such a function is sometimes referred to as a


contraction


or


contractor


where every Cauchy sequence in


A consequence of repeatedly applying a contraction mapping is that the dis-


that space converges to a point in


tance between any two members of the set is driven to


. The


contraction mapping


that space. A sequence


, . . .


is


Cauchy if, for every positive real


theorem


or the


Banach fixed-point theorem


states that every contraction mapping


number


, there is a positive in-


on a complete,


nonempty metric space has a unique fixed point. Furthermore,


teger


such that for all positive in-


tegers


, we have


for any element


in that set, repeated application of a contraction mapping to


that element results in convergence to that fixed point.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


a.15. contraction mappings


571


Showing that a function


is a contraction mapping on a metric space is useful


in various convergence proofs associated with the concepts presented earlier. For


example, we can show that the Bellman operator is a contraction mapping on


the space of value functions with the max-norm. Application of the contraction


mapping theorem allows us to prove that repeated application of the Bellman


operator results in convergence to a unique value function. Example A.1 shows a


simple contraction mapping.


Example A.1. A contraction map-


Consider the function