---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: 4 5 6
---

# 4 5 6

_Source page: 624_



7 8


7 8


Figure E.3. A search tree arising


from running forward search to


depth


on a sliding tile puzzle. All


bounds on expected reward. The upper bound on the return from taking action


states reachable in two steps are


from state


is


. The lower bound on the return from state


is


. Branch


visited, and some are visited more


than once. We find that there is


and bound follows the same procedure as depth-first-search, but it iterates over


one path to the terminal node. That


the actions according to their upper bound, and proceeds to a successor node


path has a return of


, whereas


only if the best possible value it could return is higher than what has already been


all other paths have a return of


discovered by following an earlier action. Branch and bound search is compared


to forward search in example E.1.


Algorithm E.3.


The branch and


function


branch_and_bound


::


Search


Ulo


Qhi


bound search algorithm for find-


),


ing an approximately optimal ac-


if


isempty


||


tion for a discrete search problem


return


nothing


Ulo


))


from a current state


. The search


end


is performed to depth


with a


best


nothing


=-


Inf


value function lower bound


Ulo


for


in


sort


by


->


Qhi


),


rev


true


if


Qhi


best


and an action value function upper


return


best


# safe to prune


bound


Qhi


. The returned named tu-


end


ple consists of the best action


and


branch_and_bound


),


-1


Ulo


Qhi


).


its finite-horizon expected value


if


best


best


end


end


return


best


end


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


e.4. branch and bound


603


Example E.1. A comparison of the


Consider using branch and bound on a hex world search problem. Actions


savings that branch and bound can


in search problems cause deterministic transitions, so unlike the hex-world


have over forward search. Branch


and bound can be significantly


MDP, we always correctly transition between neighboring tiles when the


more efficient with appropriate


corresponding action is taken.


bounds.


The circle indicates the start state. All transitions incur a reward of


The blue tile is terminal and produces reward


when entered.


Here, we show the search trees for both forward search and branch and


bound to depth


. For branch and bound, we used a lower bound