---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: '0.17'
---

# 0.17

_Source page: 61_



Exercise 2.4.


Suppose that we want to specify a multivariate Gaussian mixture model with


three components defined over four variables. We require that two of the three Gaussian


distributions assume independence between the four variables, while the other Gaussian


distribution is defined without any independence assumptions. How many independent


parameters are required to specify this mixture model?


Solution:


For a Gaussian distribution over four variables (


) with independence


assumptions, we need to specify


independent parameters; there are four


parameters for the mean vector and four parameters for the covariance matrix (which is


equivalent to the mean and variance parameters of four independent univariate Gaussian


distributions). For a Gaussian distribution over four variables without independence


assumptions, we need to specify


/2


14


independent parameters; there are


parameters for the mean vector and


10


parameters for the covariance matrix. In addition,


for our three mixture components (


), we need to specify


independent


parameters for the weights. Thus, we need


) +


14


) +


32


independent parameters


to specify this mixture distribution.


Exercise 2.5.


We have three independent variables


1:3


defined by piecewise-constant


densities with


, and


bin edges, respectively. How many independent parameters are


required to specify their joint distribution?


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


40


chapter 2. representation


Solution:


If we have a piecewise-constant density with


bin edges, then there are


bins and


independent parameters. For this problem, there will be