---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: 96.9 %
---

# 96.9 %

_Source page: 62_



© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


2.8. exercises


41


Exercise 2.8.


Given the following Bayesian network, is


d-separated from


, given


Solution:


There are two paths from


to


and


. There is


d-separation along the second path, but not the first. Hence,


is not d-separated from


given


Exercise 2.9.


Given the following Bayesian network, determine the Markov blanket of


Solution:


Paths from


to


can only be d-separated given


. Paths from


to


can only be


d-separated given


. Paths from


to


, and simultaneously


, and


, can be efficiently


d-separated given


. Paths from


to


are naturally d-separated due to a v-structure;


however, since


must be contained in our Markov blanket, paths from


to


given


can


only be d-separated given


. So, the Markov blanket of


is


Exercise 2.10.


In a Bayesian network with structure


, is it possible for


to be


independent of


Solution:


There is a direct arrow from


to


, which indicates that independence is not


implied. However, this does not mean that they are not independent. Whether


and


are


independent depends on the choice of conditional probability tables. We can choose the


tables so that there is independence. For example, suppose that both variables are binary


and


) =


0.5


is uniform and


) =


0.5


. Clearly,


) =


, which


means they are independent.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com