---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (3.14)
---

# (3.14)

_Source page: 75_



in this section follows that text. See


appendix C for a brief review of


complexity classes.


where


represents


logical negation


(‘‘not’’),


represents


logical conjunction


(‘‘and’’),


This formula also appears in ex-


ample C.3 in appendix C.


and


represents


logical disjunction


(‘‘or’’). The formula consists of a conjunction


of


clauses


, which are disjunctions of what are called


literals


. A literal is simply a


variable or its negation.


Figure 3.4 shows the corresponding Bayesian network representation. The


variables are represented by


, and the clauses are represented by


. The


1:4


1:3


distributions over the variables are uniform. The nodes representing clauses


have as parents the participating variables. Because this is a 3SAT problem, each


clause node has exactly three parents. Each clause node assigns probability


to assignments that do not satisfy the clause and probability


to all satisfying


assignments. The remaining nodes assign probability


to true if all their parents


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


54


chapter 3. inference


are true. The original problem is satisfiable if and only if


. Hence,


inference in Bayesian networks is at least as hard as 3SAT.


Figure 3.4. Bayesian network rep-


resenting a 3SAT problem.


The reason we go to the effort of showing that inference in Bayesian networks


is NP-hard is so that we know to avoid wasting time looking for an efficient, exact


inference algorithm that works on all Bayesian networks. Therefore, research over


the past couple of decades has focused on approximate inference methods, which


are discussed next.