---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: '0.000796'
---

# 0.000796

_Source page: 90_



Since


pedestrian


medium


slow


has the largest probability, the object is classified as a


pedestrian.


Exercise 3.4.


Given the 3SAT formula in equation (3.14) and the Bayesian network structure


in figure 3.4, what are the values of


and


Solution:


We have


) =


because


makes the third clause true, and


) =


, because


requires that both


and


be true.


Exercise 3.5.


Give a topological sort for each of the following directed graphs:


(1)


(2)


Solution:


There are three valid topological sorts for the first directed graph (Bayesian


network):


, and


. There are no valid


topological sorts for the second directed graph since it is cyclic.


Exercise 3.6.


Suppose that we have the following Bayesian network and we are interested


in generating an approximation of the inference query


using likelihood


weighted sampling. Given the following samples, write the expressions for each of the


sample weights. In addition, write the equation for estimating


in terms of


the sample weights


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


3.11. exercises


69


Solution:


For likelihood weighted sampling, the sample weights are the product of the


distributions over evidence variables conditioned on the values of their parents. Thus, the


general form for our weights is


. We then match each of the values for


each sample from the joint distribution:


Weight


To estimate


, we simply need to sum the weights of samples consistent


with the query variable and divide this by the sum of all the weights:


) =


Exercise 3.7.


Each year, we receive student scores on standardized mathematics


, reading


, and writing


exams. Using data from prior years, we create the following distribution:


81


25


16




















∼N


82


36


16


80


16


16


36


Compute the parameters of the conditional distribution over a student’s math and reading


test scores, given a writing score of


90


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


70


chapter 3. inference


Solution:


If we let


represent the vector of math and reading scores and


represent the


writing score, the joint and conditional distributions are as follows:


#!


∼N


) =


CB


CB


In the example, we have the following definitions:


81


25


16


80


36


82


36


16


Thus, the parameters of our conditional distribution given


90


are


81


16