---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (6.1)
---

# (6.1)

_Source page: 134_



The existence of a real-valued measure of utility emerges from a set of assump-


The theory of expected utility


tions about preferences.


From this utility function, it is possible to define what it


was introduced by the Swiss math-


means to make rational decisions under uncertainty. Just as we imposed a set of


ematician and physicist Daniel


constraints on beliefs, we will impose some constraints on preferences:


Bernoulli (1700–1782) in 1738. See


D. Bernoulli, “Exposition of a New


Theory on the Measurement of


Completeness.


Exactly one of the following holds:


, or


Risk,”


Econometrica


, vol. 22, no. 1,


pp. 23–36, 1954.


Transitivity.


If


and


, then


These


constraints


are


some-


times called the


von Neumann–


Continuity.


If


, then there exists a probability


such that


Morgenstern


axioms


named


after


the


Hungarian-American


mathematician and physicist John


Independence.


If


, then for any


and probability


: 1


von Neumann (1903–1957) and


the Austrian-American economist


: 1


Oskar Morgenstern (1902–1977).


They formulated a variation of


These are constraints on


rational preferences


. They say nothing about the preferences


these axioms. See J. von Neumann


of actual human beings; in fact, there is strong evidence that humans are not


and O. Morgenstern,


Theory of


Games


and


Economic


Behavior


always rational (a point discussed further in section 6.7). Our objective in this


Princeton University Press, 1944.


book is to understand rational decision making from a computational perspective


Critiques of these axioms are


so that we can build useful systems. The possible extension of this theory to


discussed by P. Anand, “Are


the


Preference


Axioms


Really


understanding human decision making is only of secondary interest.


Rational?”


Theory and Decision


vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 189–214, 1987.