---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: ': 0.0'
---

# : 0.0

_Source page: 148_



])


, we maintain a preference for


the first lottery.


Exercise 6.4.


Prove that the power utility function in equation (6.5) is risk averse for all


and


with


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


6.9. exercises


127


Solution:


Risk aversion implies that the utility function is concave, which requires that the


second derivative of the utility function is negative. The utility function and its derivatives


are computed as follows:


) =


dU


dx


dx


For


and


is a positive number raised to a positive exponent, which


is guaranteed to be positive. Multiplying this by


guarantees that the second derivative


is negative. Thus, for all


and


, the power utility function is risk averse.


Exercise 6.5.


Using the parameters given in example 6.3, compute the expected utility of


bringing our umbrella if we forecast sun and the expected utility of leaving our umbrella


behind if we forecast sun. What is the action that maximizes our expected utility, given


that we forecast sun?


Solution:


EU


bring umbrella


forecast sun


) =


0.2


× −


0.1


0.8


0.9


0.7


EU


leave umbrella


forecast sun


) =


0.2


× −


1.0


0.8


1.0


0.6


The action that maximizes our expected utility if we forecast sun is to bring our umbrella!


Exercise 6.6.


Suppose that we are trying to optimally decide whether or not to feed (


our new puppy based on the likelihood that the puppy is hungry (


). We can observe


whether the puppy is whining (


) and whether someone else has recently fed the puppy


). The utilities of each combination of feeding and hunger and the decision network


representation are provided here:


Feed?


0.0


Hungry?


1.0


0.5


0.1


Whining?


Recently Fed?


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


128


chapter 6. simple decisions


Given that


) =