---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (20.10)
---

# (20.10)

_Source page: 431_



An optimal action can be generated from the action associated with the root of a


maximizing


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


410


chapter 20. exact belief state planning


Example 20.1. A conditional plan


Consider the following three-step conditional plan for the crying baby prob-


for the three-step crying baby prob-


lem:


lem (appendix F.7), evaluated and


compared to two simpler condi-


tional plans.


feed


crying


feed


quiet


crying


ignore


ignore


quiet


feed


crying


ignore


quiet


ignore


In this plan, we begin by ignoring the baby. If we observe any crying, we


feed the baby. If we do not observe any crying, we ignore the baby. Our third


action again feeds if there is crying.


The expected utility for this plan in belief space is plotted alongside a


three-step plan that always feeds the baby and one that always ignores the


baby.


given plan


always ignore


always feed


10


20


0.2


0.6


0.8


0.4


hungry


We find that the given plan is not universally better than either always


ignoring or always feeding the baby.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


20.3. alpha vectors


411


Solving an


-step POMDP by directly enumerating all


-step conditional plans


338


is generally computationally intractable, as shown in figure 20.2. There are