---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (6.11)
---

# (6.11)

_Source page: 145_



Of course, equations (6.10) and (6.11) result in a contradiction. We have made


no assumption about the actual value of


lose


75


and


lose


100


—we did


not even assume that losing


100


lives was worse than losing


75


lives. Because


equation (6.2) follows directly from the von Neumann–Morgenstern axioms


given in section 6.1, there must be a violation of at least one of the axioms, even


though many people who select


and


seem to find the axioms agreeable.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


124


chapter 6. simple decisions


Example 6.7.


An experiment


Tversky and Kahneman demonstrated the


framing effect


using a hypothetical


demonstrating the framing effect.


scenario in which an epidemic is expected to kill 600 people. They presented


A. Tversky and D. Kahneman,


“The Framing of Decisions and


students with the following two outcomes:


the Psychology of Choice,”


Science


vol. 211, no. 4481, pp. 453–458,


200


people will be saved.


1981.


1/3


chance that


600


people will be saved and


2/3


chance that no people


will be saved.


The majority of students chose


over


. They then asked them to choose


between the following:


400


people will die.


1/3


chance that nobody will die and


2/3


chance that


600


people will


die.


The majority of students chose


over


, even though


is equivalent to


and


is equivalent to


. This inconsistency is due to how the question is


framed.


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


6.8. summary


125