---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (19.26)
---

# (19.26)

_Source page: 410_



10


It is common to use


otherwise


which is optimal for matching the


fourth moment of Gaussian distri-


The scalar


spread parameter


determines how far the sigma points are spread


butions. Motivations for choosing


10


sigma point sets of this form are


from the mean.


Several sigma point sets for different values of


are shown in


provided in exercise 19.13 and ex-


figure 19.4.


ercise 19.14.


Figure 19.4. The effect of varying


0.5


0.0


2.0


4.0


on the sigma points from equa-


tion (19.23) generated for a Gaus-


sian distribution with zero mean


and covariance:


1 1


2 2


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


19.5. unscented kalman filter


389


The unscented Kalman filter performs two unscented transformations: one for


the prediction step and one for the observation update. Algorithm 19.5 provides


an implementation of this.


Algorithm 19.5.


The unscented


struct


UnscentedKalmanFilter


Kalman filter, an extension of the


μb


# mean vector


Kalman filter to problems with


Σb


# covariance matrix


nonlinear Gaussian dynamics. The


# spread parameter


current belief is represented by


end


mean


μb


and covariance


Σb


. The


function


unscented_transform


ws


problem


specifies the nonlinear


length


dynamics using the mean tran-


cholesky


((


).


sition dynamics function


fT


and


mean observation dynamics func-


for


in 1


tion


fO


. The sigma points used in


push!


])


the unscented transforms are con-


push!


])


trolled by the spread parameter


end


S′


f.


μ′


sum


for


in


zip


ws


S′


))


Σ′


sum


μ′


μ′


for


in


zip


ws


S′


))


return


μ′


Σ′


S′


end


function


update


::


UnscentedKalmanFilter


μb


Σb


μb


Σb


fT


fO


fT


fO


length


μb


ws


);


fill


)),


)]


# predict


μp


Σp


Sp


Sp′


unscented_transform


μb


Σb


->


fT


),


ws


Σp


+=


Σs


# update


μo


Σo


So


So′


unscented_transform


μp


Σp


fO


ws


Σo


+=


Σo


Σpo


sum


μp


s′


μo


for


s′


in


zip


ws


So


So′


))


Σpo


Σo


μb′


μp


μo


Σb′


Σp


Σo


return


UnscentedKalmanFilter


μb′


Σb′


end


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


390


chapter 19. beliefs