---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (2.32)
---

# (2.32)

_Source page: 55_



If we had fully specified a joint distribution over the five variables


, and


, then we would have needed


31


independent parameters. The structure


assumed in our Bayesian network allows us to specify the joint distribution using


only


10


independent parameters. The difference between


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


34


chapter 2. representation


Example 2.5. A Bayesian network


In the margin is a Bayesian network for a satellite-monitoring problem involv-


representing a satellite-monitoring


ing five binary variables. Fortunately, battery failure and solar panel failures


problem. Here is the structure of


the network represented as a di-


are both rare, although solar panel failures are somewhat more likely than


rected acyclic graph. Associated


battery failures. Failures in either can lead to electrical system failure. There


with each node is a conditional


may be causes of electrical system failure other than battery or solar panel


probability distribution.


failure, such as a problem with the power management unit. An electrical


system failure can result in trajectory deviation, which can be observed from


the Earth by telescope, as well as a communication loss that interrupts the


transmission of telemetry and mission data down to various ground stations.


Other anomalies not involving the electrical system can result in trajectory


deviation and communication loss.


Associated with each of the five variables are five conditional probability


distributions. Because


and


have no parents, we only need to specify


and


. The code here creates a Bayesian network structure with example


values for the elements of the associated factor tables. The tuples in the factor


tables index into the domains of the variables, which is