---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: 2, 1
---

# 2, 1

_Source page: 116_



. The maximum a posteriori estimate of


or mode of the posterior distribution


is


• The mean of the posterior distribution is


Exercise 4.6.


Suppose we are given the following data set, with one missing value. What


is the value that will be imputed using marginal mode imputation, assuming that the


marginal distribution is a Gaussian? What is the value that will be imputed using nearest-


neighbor imputation?


0.5


1.0


0.3


0.6


0.3


0.1


0.2


Solution:


Assuming that the marginal distribution over


is a Gaussian, we can compute


the marginal mode, which is the mean parameter of the Gaussian distribution:


0.5


0.6


0.1


Thus, for marginal mode imputation, the missing value will be set to


. For nearest-neighbor


imputation, the nearest sample to


0.3


is the fourth sample, so the missing value will


be set to


0.1


Exercise 4.7.


Suppose we are given a data set over two variables


, with several missing


1:2


values. We assume that


1:2


are jointly Gaussian and use the fully-observed samples to fit


the following distribution:


#!


∼N


What is the value that will be imputed for


1.5


using posterior


for the sample


mode imputation? What distribution do we need to sample from for posterior sample


imputation?


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


4.6. exercises


95


Solution:


Since we assumed that


1:2


are jointly Gaussian, the posterior distribution over


given


is also Gaussian, and its mode is the mean parameter of the posterior distribution.


We can compute the mean of the posterior distribution as follows:


) =


+ (


)(


1.5


) =