---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: 3, 4
---

# 3, 4

_Source page: 227_



. We can formulate this problem as


follows and extract the first action from the plan:


model


Model


Ipopt


Optimizer


10


current_state


zeros


goal


10


10


obstacle


@variables


model


begin


-1


end


# velocity update


@constraint


model


, [


],


==


-1


-1


])


# position update


@constraint


model


, [


],


==


-1


-1


])


# initial condition


@constraint


model


] .


==


current_state


# obstacle


@constraint


model


, [


],


sum


((


obstacle


).


@objective


model


Min


100


sum


((


goal


).


sum


))


optimize!


model


action


value.


])


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


206


chapter 9. online planning


10


Figure 9.9. Model predictive con-


trol applied to the problem in ex-


ample 9.10, with the addition of


a moving obstacle. The sequence


progresses left-to-right, and top-to-


bottom. Initially, we have a plan


that passes to the right of the ob-


stacle, but in the third cell, we see


that we must change our mind and


pass to the left. We have to maneu-


10


ver around a little to adjust our


velocity vector appropriately with


minimal effort. Of course, we could


have created a better path (in terms


of our utility function) if our plan-


ning process had known that the


obstacle was moving in a particular


direction.


10


10


10


10


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


9.9. open-loop planning


207


Unfortunately, this formulation can result in extremely conservative behavior. If


we adapt example 9.10 to model the uncertainty in the motion of the obstacle, the


accumulation of uncertainty may become quite large, even when planning with


a relatively short horizon. One way to reduce the accumulation of uncertainty


is to restrict the uncertainty set output by


to contain only, say,