---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: 3, 2
---

# 3, 2

_Source page: 113_



This expression is just the expectation (or mean) of a beta distribution, which gives us


basket


) =


3/5


Exercise 4.2.


Consider a continuous random variable


that follows the


Laplace distribution


parameterized by


and


, with density


) =


exp


Compute the maximum likelihood estimates of the parameters of a Laplace distribution


given a data set


of


independent observations


. Note that


sign


1:


where the


sign


function returns the sign of its argument.


Solution:


Since the observations are independent, we can write the log-likelihood function


as the summation:





) =


log


exp


log 2


log 2


To obtain the maximum likelihood estimates of the true parameters


and


, we take the


partial derivatives of the log-likelihood with respect to each of the parameters, set them to


zero, and solve for each parameter. First, we solve for


) =


sign


∂µ


sign


sign


median


1:


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


92


chapter 4. parameter learning


Now, solving for


) =


Thus, the maximum likelihood estimates for the parameters of a Laplace distribution are


the median of the observations, and


, the mean of absolute deviations from the median.


Exercise 4.3.


This question explores the application of maximum likelihood estimation to


censored data


, where some measurements are only partially known. Suppose that we are


building electric motors for a quadcopter drone, and we want to produce a model of how


long they last until failure. Although there may be more suitable distributions for modeling


K. S. Trivedi and A. Bobbio,


the reliability of components,


we will use an


exponential distribution


parameterized by


Reli-


ability and Availability Engineering


with probability density function


exp


and cumulative distribution function


Cambridge University Press, 2017.


exp


. We fly five drones. Three have motor failures after


132


hours,


42


hours,


and


89


hours. We stopped testing the other two after


200


hours without failure; we do not


know their failure times; we just know that they are greater than


200


hours. What is the


maximum likelihood estimate for


given this data?


Solution:


This problem has


fully observed measurements and


censored mea-


surements. We use


th fully observed measurement and


to represent the


to represent


the


th censored measurement. The likelihood of a single measurement above


is the


complement of the cumulative distribution function, which is simply


exp


. Hence,


the likelihood of the data is


We use our standard approach of maximizing the log-likelihood, which is given by


) =


log


) +


The derivative with respect to


is


∂λ


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


4.6. exercises


93


Setting this derivative to


, we can solve for


to obtain the maximum likelihood estimate: