---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (8.6)
---

# (8.6)

_Source page: 187_



where


controls the degree of smoothing.


Figure 8.2. Approximating the val-


ues of states in a two-dimensional


continuous state space by assign-


mutable struct


LocallyWeightedValueFunction


ing values based on proximity to


# kernel function k(s, s′)


# set of discrete states


several states with known values.


# vector of values at states in S


Approximations are constructed


end


using several distance functions.


function


Uθ


::


LocallyWeightedValueFunction


)(


normalize


([


Uθ


s′


for


s′


in


Uθ


],


return


Uθ


Algorithm 8.3. Locally weighted


end


value function approximation de-


fined by a kernel function


and a


function


fit!


Uθ


::


LocallyWeightedValueFunction


vector of utilities


at states in


Uθ


return


Uθ


end


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


166


chapter 8. approximate value functions


Figure 8.3. Local approximation


value iteration used to iteratively


improve an approximate value


Initial value function


function on the hex world problem.


The five outlined states are used


to approximate the value function.


The value of the remaining states


are approximated using the dis-


Iteration


tance function


. The result-


ing policy is reasonable but nev-


ertheless suboptimal. Positive re-


ward is shown in blue, and nega-


tive reward is shown in red.


Iteration


Value Function


Acceleration


10


accel right


260


coast


accel left


280


speed


300


0.5


0.5


0.5


0.5


Figure 8.4. A utility function and


position


position


policy obtained by learning the ac-


tion values for a finite set of states


(white) in the mountain car prob-


lem using the distance function


0.1


© 2022 Massachusetts Institute of Technology, shared under a Creative Commons CC-BY-NC-ND license.


2025-09-21 10:49:56-07:00, comments to bugs@algorithmsbook.com


8.4. linear interpolation


167