---
converted: '2025-10-25'
source: AlgorithmforDecisionMaking.pdf
title: (8.14)
---

# (8.14)

_Source page: 194_



Although our approximation is linear with respect to the basis functions, the


resulting approximation may be nonlinear with respect to the underlying state


variables. Figure 8.12 illustrates this concept. Example 8.2 provides an exam-


ple of global linear value approximation using polynomial basis functions for


the continuous mountain car problem, resulting in a nonlinear value function


approximation with respect to the state variables.


Figure 8.12. Linear regression with


nonlinear basis functions is linear


in higher dimensions. Here, poly-


nomial regression can be seen as


linear in a three-dimensional space.


The function exists in the plane


formed from its bases, but it does


not occupy the entire plane be-


cause the terms are not indepen-


dent.


Adding more basis functions generally improves the ability to match the target


utilities at the states in


, but too many basis functions can lead to poor approxi-


mations at other states. Principled methods exist for choosing an appropriate set


See chapter 14 of M. J. Kochender-


of basis functions for our regression model.


fer and T. A. Wheeler,


Algorithms


Fitting linear models involves determining the vector


that minimizes the


for Optimization


. MIT Press, 2019.


squared error of the predictions at the states in


. If the utilities associated


1:


or chapter 7 of T. Hastie, R. Tibshi-


rani, and J. Friedman,


The Elements


with those states are denoted as


, then we want to find the


that minimizes


1:


of Statistical Learning: Data Mining,


Inference, and Prediction


, 2nd ed.


Springer Series in Statistics, 2001.